SECURITY.md, before:

Thanks for helping make GitHub safe for everyone.

# Security

GitHub takes the security of our software products and services seriously, including all of the open source code repositories managed through our GitHub organizations, such as [GitHub](https://github.com/GitHub).

Even though [open source repositories are outside of the scope of our bug bounty program](https://bounty.github.com/index.html#scope) and therefore not eligible for bounty rewards, we will ensure that your finding gets passed along to the appropriate maintainers for remediation. 

## Reporting Security Issues

If you believe you have found a security vulnerability in any GitHub-owned repository, please report it to us through coordinated disclosure using GitHub's [Private Vulnerability Reporting](https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/security-advisories/guidance-on-reporting-and-writing-information-about-vulnerabilities/privately-reporting-a-security-vulnerability)[here](https://github.com/GitHubSecurityLab/seclab-taskflow-agent/security).

**Please do not report security vulnerabilities through public GitHub issues, discussions, or pull requests.**

Please include as much of the information listed below as you can to help us better understand and resolve the issue:

  * The type of issue (e.g., buffer overflow, SQL injection, or cross-site scripting)
  * Full paths of source file(s) related to the manifestation of the issue
  * The location of the affected source code (tag/branch/commit or direct URL)
  * Any special configuration required to reproduce the issue
  * Step-by-step instructions to reproduce the issue
  * Proof-of-concept or exploit code (if possible)
  * Impact of the issue, including how an attacker might exploit the issue

This information will help us triage your report more quickly.

## Policy

See [GitHub's Safe Harbor Policy](https://docs.github.com/en/site-policy/security-policies/github-bug-bounty-program-legal-safe-harbor#1-safe-harbor-terms)

Commit message:

Update SECURITY.md because GitHub OSS policy does not yet use PVR

SECURITY.md, after:

Thanks for helping make GitHub safe for everyone.

# Security

GitHub takes the security of our software products and services seriously, including all of the open source code repositories managed through our GitHub organizations, such as [GitHub](https://github.com/GitHub).

Even though [open source repositories are outside of the scope of our bug bounty program](https://bounty.github.com/index.html#scope) and therefore not eligible for bounty rewards, we will ensure that your finding gets passed along to the appropriate maintainers for remediation. 

## Reporting Security Issues

If you believe you have found a security vulnerability in any GitHub-owned repository, please report it to us through coordinated disclosure.

**Please do not report security vulnerabilities through public GitHub issues, discussions, or pull requests.**

Instead, please send an email to opensource-security[@]github.com.

Please include as much of the information listed below as you can to help us better understand and resolve the issue:

  * The type of issue (e.g., buffer overflow, SQL injection, or cross-site scripting)
  * Full paths of source file(s) related to the manifestation of the issue
  * The location of the affected source code (tag/branch/commit or direct URL)
  * Any special configuration required to reproduce the issue
  * Step-by-step instructions to reproduce the issue
  * Proof-of-concept or exploit code (if possible)
  * Impact of the issue, including how an attacker might exploit the issue

This information will help us triage your report more quickly.

## Policy

See [GitHub's Safe Harbor Policy](https://docs.github.com/en/site-policy/security-policies/github-bug-bounty-program-legal-safe-harbor#1-safe-harbor-terms)
